Ibn al-Haytham (c. 965–c.
1040), Book of Optics Book
I, [6.85], [6.86]. Book II,
[3.80] describes his camera
obscura experiments.[18]Natural philosophy  has its origins in Greece during the Archaic period (650 BCE – 480 BCE), when pre-
Socratic philosophe rs like Thales rejected non-naturalistic explanations for natural phenomena and
proclaimed that every event had a natural cause.[14] They proposed ideas verified by reason and
observation, and many of their hypot heses proved successful in experiment;[15] for example, atomism was
found to be correct approximately 2000 years after it was proposed by Leucippus and his pupil
Democritus.[16]
The Western Roman Empire fell in the fifth century, and this resulted in a decline in intellectual pursuits in
the western part of Europe. By contrast, the Eastern Roman Empire (also know n as the Byzantine Empire)
resisted the attacks from the barbarians, and continued to advance various fields of learning, including
physics.[17]
In the sixth century, Isidore of Miletus created an important compilation of Archimedes' works that are
copied in the Archimedes Palimpsest.
In sixth-century Europe John Philoponus , a Byzantine scholar, questioned
Aristotle's teaching of physics and noted its flaws. He introduc ed the
theory of impetus. Aristotle's physics was not scrutinized until Philoponus
appeared; unlike Aristotle, who based his physics on verbal argument,
Philoponus  relied on obs ervation. O n Aristotle's phys ics Philoponus  wrote:
But this is completely erroneous, and our view may be
corroborated by actual observation more effectively than by
any sort of verbal argument. For if you let fall from the same
height two weights of which one is many times as heavy as
the other, you will see that the ratio of the times required for
the motion does not depend on the ratio of the weights, but
that the difference in time is a very small one. And so, if the
difference in the weights is not considerable, that is, of one is,
let us say, doubl e the other, there will be no difference, or else
an imperceptible difference, in time, though the difference in
weight is by no means negligible, with one body weighing
twice as much as the other[19]
Philoponus ' criticism of Aristotelian principles of physics served as an inspiration for Galileo Galilei ten
centuries later,[20] during the Scientific Revolution. Galileo cited Philoponus  substantially in his works
when arguing that Aristotelian physics was flawed.[21][22] In the 1300s  Jean Buridan, a teacher in the
faculty of arts at the University of Paris, developed the concept of impetus. It was a step toward the modern
ideas of inertia and m omentum.[23]
Islamic scholarship inherited Aristotelian physics from the Greeks and during the Islamic Golden Age
developed it further, especially placing emphasis on observation and a priori reasoning, developing early
forms of the scientific method.
The most notable innova tions were in the field of optics and vision, which came from the works of many
scientists like Ibn Sahl, Al-Kindi, Ibn al-Haytham, Al-Farisi and Avicenna. The most notable work was
The Book of Optics (also know n as Kitāb al-Manā ẓ ir), written by Ibn al-Haytham, in which he
conclusively disproved the ancient Greek idea about vision, but also came up with a new theory. In theMedieval European and Islamic